Good morning, everybody.
It's nice to see,
flattering for us to see that you
sacrificed your beauty sleep to come
up here and catch our presentation.
So, what do we have for you today?
We're going to be talking
about Latent Semantic Mapping,
also known as LSM.
First,
we're going to explain what LSM is,
how it works.
how you can use the APIs.
We're going to present some
case studies on how we used LSM.
And then more interestingly for you,
we're going to talk about how
you can use LSM for yourself.
There is going to be some
time for a Q&A at the end,
of course.
So what is latent semantic mapping?
Latent semantic mapping is a
technology to analyze documents,
especially text documents,
according to their meaning
and classify them by topic.
Now that's a little bit vague.
So allow me to give you a brief
demonstration on how this is working.
So, first thing you're going to see
here is no C code was written
for this demo whatsoever.
We're going to be using
just a shell tool,
user/bin/lsm.
And what we're going to do is build a
classifier to distinguish Perl files
from Python files from Ruby files.
We have a whole bunch
of these on the system.
You can see we have in
the library folders,
we have something like 14 megabytes
of text documents or of text
files for these three languages,
roughly equally split.
What we are going to do now is train a
latent semantic mapping map from this.
So you see here the command
line tool LSM create.
We have a name for the map that
you can choose arbitrarily.
We have our Perl files,
we have our Python files,
and we have our Ruby training files.
Each of this is a group of
files separated by a semicolon.
So we say our categories are grouped,
split by semicolons.
And we're now going to build
this map when I hit return.
These 14 megabytes of data
are going to be read in.
The map is going to be built using
a very sophisticated process.
So this takes some time,
roughly two seconds.
And we have our map.
We compiled this into a
map of about one megabyte.
This map is supposed to classify Perl,
Python, and Ruby files.
So let's pick some files we haven't
seen in the training material.
There are a bunch of scripts in /usr/bin,
so we're going to...
See what this map can do on acLocal,
on pyDoc,
and on Generate Bridge Metadata.
Now remember, we have three categories.
Number one is Perl, number two is Python,
Number 3 is Ruby.
And our classifier tells us
that aclocal is most likely,
belongs to category 1, that is Perl.
pydoc most likely belongs to category 2,
that is Ruby, Python.
And generate-bridge metadata
is most likely category 3,
Ruby.
For those of you who have
looked at the file names,
which the tool didn't do,
it's likely that pydoc
was a correct guess.
So let's see.
"What languages these
scripts actually are.
And you see that indeed,
aclocal is a Perl script,
pydoc is a Python script,
and generate-bridge-metadata
is a Ruby script.
So you see that with little effort
you can train up a recognizer to
distinguish programming languages
that may have different keywords.
Now, what other things can you do?
You probably are not going to tell apart
Perl files from Python files all day.
One of our first successful applications
was the Junk Mail Filter in Mail.app,
which assesses whether an
incoming mail message is a
legitimate mail or junk mail.
The same principle applies
to Parental Controls,
which do the same
classification for web pages.
We also use this for the Japanese users
might be familiar with the Kanatukanji
conversion to convert Japanese text
from a syllabic representation to
an ideographic Kanji representation,
which is a context-sensitive operation.
Internally, we are also using LSM with
some successful localization,
where again you have a word that can map
to different words in another language,
and you need some context to disambiguate
what the word possibly could mean.
So now you've seen what it looks like
and what you could possibly use it for,
but how does it work under the hood?
To answer this question,
I would like to bring up my
colleague Jerome Bellegarda,
who actually developed the algorithms
underlying Latent Semantic Mapping.
Thank you, Matthias.
Welcome.
So actually explaining latent
semantic mapping is rather simple
because it's all in the name.
Let's unravel those three words,
latent semantic and mapping.
First of all,
we're talking about mapping,
specifically between words and
documents and points in some
complex multidimensional space,
which we'll talk about.
And the important thing about
this mapping is that it is a way
to go from discrete entities,
words and documents in
this particular case,
to a continuous vector space,
which has very nice
mathematical properties.
The second point is that
this mapping is very simple.
The third point is that
this mapping is semantic,
meaning that we are using the
meaning behind the words and the
documents in order to unravel the
entire fabric of the language,
so to speak.
And finally, this mapping is latent,
which in this particular case means
that the meaning that we're talking
about here is inferred directly from
the data and not obtained explicitly.
For example, from a dictionary.
And that inference is based
on word co-occurrences.
Let's drill down a little
bit on those three aspects,
starting with this word
co-occurrence thing.
In particular,
what I would like to stress
is that two words can co-occur
either in the same document,
but also, and that's a more subtle way of
getting to the co-occurrence,
they could co-occur with
a common set of words,
but never to each other.
In both cases, those words will have a
representation in the LSM space,
which are in the same
region of the space.
So this is great for things
like discovering synonyms,
for example, car and automobile,
which can be used interchangeably,
but also to get to multiple,
to disambiguate between multiple
senses of a certain word.
For example, the word bank.
If bank and rate happens to be close,
in the LSM space,
then we can pretty much be
certain that the general region
of the space represents finance.
Whereas if bank and river are close
in the same region of the space,
then that region is more
likely about phishing.
So now let's talk about the
semantic part of things.
And here I'd like to take an example,
which is parental control,
which Mathias was just mentioning.
In parental control, the aim,
the aim of this feature is
to assess whether a web page
contains any explicit words.
And so a naive approach might be to say,
well,
we're going to look for words like sex.
However,
it's not that simple because there
are many legitimate documents
that talk about sex education,
for example.
So we really have to go to the
meaning behind the documents.
And we're going to leverage this
aspect that I was just discussing,
the closeness in the LSM space.
Again,
if sex occurs close to toys in the,
a word like toys, in the LSM space,
then probably that web
page is objectionable.
Whereas if sex occurs next
to education in that space,
then that page is probably okay.
In the LSM implementation, we use,
in that case, two categories.
One for the legitimate material,
one for the explicit material.
And we define special
points in the LSM space.
Which are called semantic anchors.
And then all we have to do is,
for a new web page,
evaluate whether the web page,
the representation of the web page
in the LSM space is close to the
legitimate anchor or the explicit anchor.
Let me just illustrate
on a very simple 2D map.
So let's assume we have an
anchor which represents,
in a sense, it's the centroid of all the
legitimate pages that we've seen.
And then we have somewhere
else the explicit anchor,
which would be the centroid
of all the explicit documents,
web pages that we've seen.
Then what we do is we map an
incoming web page into that space.
And then simply compute the distance
between that representation of
the web page and the two anchors.
And in this particular case,
we see that the web page is closer to
the anchor of the explicit material.
So we would conclude that
this is an explicit page.
Now this was a very simple illustration.
This is a very simple example.
More generally, of course,
we have more than two categories.
We might have, for example,
a document about finance, phishing,
and so on and so forth.
But the mapping,
the principle is the same.
We're going to map this into
a multidimensional space.
In this particular case,
I used three dimensions.
But in general, it's much more than that.
It could be up to a couple of hundreds.
For example, we found that for a natural
language like English,
dimensionality of about
200 to 300 is appropriate.
And so what we do is in a training phase,
we're going to map all of those
documents that we have to that space.
So this results in all those
little red triangles there.
And what you see is that those red
triangles collectively define some
regions in the LSM space which represents
the categories we had to begin with.
And then now when a
new document comes in,
we have a phase-course
classification where we map
that document into the space.
And then based on where
it falls into that space,
we conclude that, for example,
in this case,
it's a document about computer science.
Now, of course,
this feels a little bit like magic,
but it's not magic.
The basic information that we
use is the difference between how
often each word appears in each
document and compared to how often
it appears in the entire collection.
And what this allows us to do is build
up a matrix of words and documents.
So for example, in this case,
let's assume we have M words
in our vocabulary and
N documents in our collections.
We build up a matrix like this and,
of course, the first thing to note is
that this matrix is going
to be very sparse because,
after all,
most words don't occur in most documents.
However,
each -- what this allows us to do is
that each word now can be represented
by a vector of dimension N and each
document by a vector of dimension M.
The problem, as I said,
is that each word can be represented
by a vector of dimension M.
So what we can say is that those
vectors tend to be sparse and,
of course, those two representations
for words and documents don't
really -- are not comparable.
So in order to address this,
we use a mathematical process called
the singular value decomposition,
which takes this matrix and
decomposes it into various -- into
those three matrices shown here.
What this allows us to do is
to transform that original,
let's say, the document,
which was in yellow,
to map it into a vector,
VJ on the other side, the red vector,
which now is no longer sparse.
It's now dense.
It has a dimension R,
which is much smaller than either M or N.
So this kind of mathematical trick
allows us to have a much more
manageable representation to deal with.
And so this leads to the kind
of LSM space that we saw before.
And this is a very interesting example
where we can now map those new documents.
One thing that's
interesting to note is that,
well, those documents have words,
of course, and those words are also
mapped in that space.
In fact,
there are those green -- I'm sorry.
There are those green vectors.
here, those green squares.
And so what we can do is two things.
We can, for a blue triangle,
which is a new document in the
space-- we can find out the
red triangle that's closest,
that's essentially the document
that's most similar to that document.
We can also find the word that's most
aligned with that document that would,
for example, function as a good
title for that document.
So as you can see,
there is a range of applications that
could benefit from such a representation.
Having said that, of course,
there are some caveats to the method.
One is that we've been
talking about semantic.
However,
it's a fairly shallow sense of semantic
since it's only based on co-occurrences.
There is no actual deep
parsing or anything like that.
Second caveat is that the
word order is ignored.
So there is no local constraints.
This actually can be added
explicitly to the framework.
And we'll talk about that
later on in the presentation.
But that's just something
to be cognizant about.
Also, this is a statistical method,
which means that like
all statistical methods,
it lives and dies by the
training data that's fed to it.
And so, for example,
let's assume we had a document
which had both river bank
and bank of Cupertino in it.
Well, how could we possibly resolve
the two senses of bank?
In that particular case, we couldn't.
So it's important to have
training data that is useful.
Thank you.
So we're going to have to do a
little bit more of a research.
So let's start with the first caveat.
What is the use of the
single value decomposition?
Well, the single value decomposition
is a very simple thing.
It's a very simple thing.
You can use a single-value decomposition
to find the single-value decomposition.
And the single-value
decomposition is a very,
very simple thing.
You can use a single-value decomposition
to find the single-value decomposition.
So let's start with the
single value decomposition.
single-value decomposition.
The final thing I wanted to
touch on before moving on
to the API is clustering.
I've talked about how this LSM space
had nice mathematical properties,
and that's an illustration of what we
can do with this nice continuous space.
And I'd like to take the example of the
Kana to Kanji conversion to illustrate.
In Kana to Kanji conversion,
we use the topic information
to disambiguate between
the various characters.
So we have a very simple example
of the Kana to Kanji conversion.
So it's for those of us who are
not native Japanese speakers,
this is a little bit like analogous
to resolving tail in the tail of a
princess versus the tail of a peacock.
We use the context to sort of get
to the orthography in that case.
So a little bit similar in
the Kana to Kanji conversion.
Now, of course,
the Japanese corpus is a large corpus.
In this particular case,
it contains over 300,000 documents.
So how to best extract
that topic information?
Well, the first thing you have to do
is to sort of go through each
document and assign it a category.
Not really feasible.
Or you can take advantage of
the fact that we have this nice
continuous space to do clustering
right there in the LSM space.
In that case,
the procedure is very simple.
We map all the document into a space,
treating each document
as a separate category.
And then we do some
data-driven computation.
So we can do that in the space,
right in the space to reduce
the number of categories.
And then optionally,
we can iterate on that process.
And as Mathias will say a little later,
we have two implementations
of clustering.
There are many -- I should say there are
many clustering applications out there,
many clustering implementations.
We've implemented two as
part of the framework.
One is called k-means clustering,
where you start with
essentially k cluster centers
randomly assigned usually,
compute distances to
those cluster centers,
and then iterate as you
adjust the center rates.
This is fairly straightforward.
Works quite well.
The caveat is that it's sensitive to,
well, those initial cluster assignments.
If you start with another
set of k clusters,
you're likely to get
slightly different clusters.
And, of course, the problem is to find
k in the first place.
The second implementation,
which is available in the LSM API,
is agglomerative clustering.
Where here you compute all
pairwise distances between
all the points in your system.
And you merge the closest
pair and then iterate again,
adjusting the distances appropriately.
Now this solves the problem of
initial cluster assignments,
of course.
The caveat here is that if you
have a large data set with,
let's say,
thousands and thousands of points,
then the cost might be prohibitive.
So anyway, that's just a brief overview
of what we can do with LSM.
And to -- To continue with the LSM API,
I'm going to bring Mathias back on stage.
Thank you, Jérôme.
So, let's discuss how you can
actually use the LSM API.
As I said before, if at all possible,
especially if your data
is primarily text-based,
try to prototype with the command
line tool as long as possible,
because it's probably going to be easier
for you to design your experiments.
Once you then do move to the API,
our API is Core Foundation based.
All our data types can be used
interchangeably with CF-based objects.
You can put them into collections,
retain, release them, and so on.
We have fundamentally three data types.
Our fundamental type is the LSM map,
which stores all our data.
An LSM map can be in three states.
In training state,
it's ready to accept categories,
ready to accept data.
In this-- in these categories,
once you have all the data
you want for your training,
the map goes into evaluation state,
at which point it's ready to
classify data you ask it to.
And finally, a map can be stored to disk
and read back from disk without
having to be recompiled,
and that's so you can
archive it and unarchive it.
The second important
data type is an LSM text,
which represents a document.
The first step is to
create a list of tokens.
As we will see,
it doesn't have to be words necessarily.
And finally, when you do an evaluation,
what you get back is an LSM result
from which you can extract
various pieces of information
that you feel important to know.
So to look at this in detail,
you create a map with lsm_map_create,
so this is very much terminology
you should be familiar with from
all this core foundation APIs.
You then add categories and data
to those categories with LSM map
add category and LSM map add text,
respectively.
Once you have all your
training data together,
you call LSM map compile,
which puts the map into evaluation state.
If at some point you want to go
back and train with some more data,
let's say in chunk mail filtering,
every time the user
hits the chunk button,
what happens is the map gets
put back into training state.
The new mail gets added to the
chunk or non-chunk category,
and then the map gets compiled again.
So you call LSM map start
training to go back to training.
You add your data,
LSM map compile to go back.
To evaluate a document you call "LSM
Result Create," which is a somewhat,
uh,
Interesting name because it doesn't
have evaluate anywhere in the name,
but what you get back from
this is an LSM result.
So that's, again, consistent terminology.
And to archive a map,
you call lsm_map_write to URL,
lsm_map_create from
URL will load it back.
And finally,
to compute clusters on a map,
you call lsm_map_create_clusters,
and if you want to reorganize
the map based on those clusters,
you call lsm_map_apply_clusters.
So that's it for maps.
Here we have assumed that you
get your texts from somewhere,
and this is,
we're going to discuss this now
in a little bit more detail.
There are three ways of
putting data into a text.
The simplest of them is you trust
our built-in parser and call
lsm_text_add_words with just
a CFString of arbitrary length.
We're going to chop up
this string for you,
extract the words.
And add those words to the text.
Now, this is often sufficient.
This is all the command line tool can do,
and as we've seen,
command line tool can do
a lot of experimenting,
prototyping,
and even actual applications.
However,
there are some limitations there.
First of all, we only,
you're at the mercy of our rules
for what consists of a word.
Secondly,
we throw away all words that consist
purely of digits because those,
in many applications,
those don't really add a lot
of information and clutter up
the space because you have all
those numbers among the words.
But in some applications,
if you have zip codes
or something like that,
then the numbers become very important.
In this case, and also in some languages,
our parser may not do the right thing.
In this case,
you're welcome to write your own parser
and to add the words individually.
With LSM text, add word in the singular,
which also works.
Finally, it doesn't,
the words don't have to be text.
As Jerome hinted at, we don't,
LSM doesn't care what your words are.
It doesn't look inside the words.
All it uses the words
for is distinguishing,
saying this is different from this one,
this is equal to this one.
So you can have arbitrary binary
tokens instead of the words.
So you just add a bunch
of bytes in a CFData.
You call LSM text add token.
It will be as good as a word
as far as LSM is concerned.
Finally, when you evaluate such a text,
you get back an LSM result
with lsm_result_create,
as we've said.
Now, the most frequent result you want
from that is lsm_result_get_category,
which is, is this a good guy,
is it a bad guy?
Is it a junk mail, is it legitimate mail?
Sometimes you also want to know the
scores associated with those categories.
Our scores are normalized
between 0 and 1,
so for each category,
you get back a score,
and if you add them up
across all categories,
you get 1.
In some applications,
you don't actually want to know what
the best category is for a document,
but you want to know what words
best represent a document,
in which case you would
call lsm_result_copy word,
or in the binary case,
lsm_result_copy token.
So that's more or less
all there is to the API.
You will see more documentation in Xcode.
You can read our headers.
It should be relatively
simple to figure out.
So what have we been using
LSM internally at Apple?
As I said, one of our first applications
was junk mail filtering.
In many ways,
this is a relatively simple application.
We have two categories: legitimate mail,
junk mail, and we have
In a typical map,
you will find tens of thousands of words,
if not more.
Now, there are some refinements that
we did for junk mail filtering.
First of all, we did not just call
lsm_result_get_category.
We don't treat the risk of throwing away
a legitimate mail just as bad as the
risk of letting through a junk mail.
Most people would rather see an
occasional junk mail than have
a legitimate mail discarded.
So, we introduce a slight bias.
We want to err on the side of
caution and rather let through
the extra mail every now and then.
The way we do this is that we call
not just lsm_result_get_category and
compare that to our junk mail category.
We also make sure that the
score associated with this
category is not just greater than
50%, which it always will be,
if it's the first category,
but greater than maybe 55 or 60.
So, we want a threshold that
is higher than just 50/50.
The second complication associated with
junk mail is that the bad guys know
that we're doing this kind of filtering.
So, what they did was they started
spelling their keywords in funny
ways so they wouldn't be caught
so easily by a simple filter.
They added periods between the
letters or they started using accents
where no accents are really needed.
We call these heavy metal umlauts.
And so, we added a couple of
heuristics to our parser.
Obviously,
we're not going to tell in great
detail what those heuristics are,
but the basic idea is that
we recognize such attempts
of disguising your keywords,
and we pluck out those keywords,
and these attempts, in fact,
make the keywords stand out even more,
like sore thumbs.
So, we're using the bad
guys' methods to help us,
because their words are going to
be even more obvious afterwards.
Which we do with this flag,
lsmtextappliesbyheuristics.
The second problem is that,
the third problem is that the map will
end up with all sorts of offensive words,
and we don't want third graders to look
at the map in a text editor if they,
if your average third grader
knows how to fire up Emacs
and look at the junk mail map.
We don't want them to
point at the words and say,
"Haha, I found a naughty word." So,
what we do here is add another flag,
lsmmap#text.
This is not cryptographic
security or anything,
it's just the map will no longer
be readable in plain text.
Another thing to emphasize is that we're
employing LSM as a last line of defense.
This is not our ultimate
or it is our final judge of
junk mail versus good mail,
but we're using a lot of rules before.
First of all, the mails are already going
to be filtered by your
Internet service provider.
Most of them throw away a
lot of their incoming mail,
and some of them are pretty good at this.
So a lot of the junk mail is
going to be filtered before
it even hits your machine.
Once it hits your machine,
first we apply the rules you have
added explicitly in the mail rules,
and anything that gets covered by one of
these rules gets filed away as good mail.
Another thing we do is we compare
it against your address book.
Of course, the bad guys can forge your
senders so they look legitimate,
but we want to err on
the side of caution.
Anything that comes from somebody you
know and is in your address book gets
considered to be legitimate mail.
And only once none of these rules
fire do we use latent semantic mapping
to decide as a last line of defense,
is this junk mail, is it good mail?
So this was one of our first applications
of LSM that we employed in the OS.
For one of the latest applications
of latent semantic mapping in the OS,
I would like to bring up my
colleague Kim Silverman to talk
about the application of LSM to Help.
Thanks Matthias.
Thank you.
So this is new,
and we wanted to tell you about
this because this is a different
way that you might think about
applying Latent Semantic Mapping
in your own applications.
OS X contains about 10,000
text documents to help users.
You get these through the
Help menu that's in the menu
bar of all the applications,
you type a query,
and we bring back the best document.
Well,
we try to bring back the best document.
The problem is finding which
document is the most relevant.
Let me show you an example.
One of the most common search queries
that people send to help in OS X is
the word "save", believe it or not.
And if you type that into Snow Leopard,
these are the documents
that are returned.
Let's take a look at them.
Top is installing and
uninstalling screensavers.
Probably not very relevant
to saving documents,
which is what I bet this query is about.
So, meh.
What about the next one?
Turning off the screensaver in front row.
Meh.
What about the next one?
Converting grab screenshots
to other formats.
Meh.
And so on it goes.
Oh, wait a minute,
here's one that might be
a little bit relevant.
Saving a document in PostScript format.
Marginally relevant.
How many of you save documents
in PostScript formats?
Yeah, see, okay,
so we're getting about a 5% hit rate.
Retrieving the right
document is not trivial.
And Snow Leopard does not
take a trivial approach.
At its core, it uses Search Kit to find
help documents that contain the
words that are in the query.
The more query words
that are in a document,
the more relevant it might be.
In addition,
experts have added by hand synonyms
to common typos and known words
that are related to each other.
The problem is that... well,
there are two problems.
One is, when people type a query,
the words in that query might also
occur in documents that are not
really relevant to that query.
The second problem is that the words
in the query might have synonyms
that are used in the actual document.
The person might have
not used the right words.
So both of these suggest that maybe
latent semantic mapping could help
things along and be fruitful here.
So we take all of these 10,000
documents and map them into a
multidimensional semantic space.
As Jerome has mentioned,
words exist in the same
space as the documents.
When a user types in a query,
we map that query into the same space,
find the nearest documents,
and show those to the user.
How well does it work?
Well, to evaluate,
we took a hundred of the most common
queries that people type to help.
For each query,
we retrieved the top documents using
the keyword-based method and the top
documents using latent semantic mapping.
About 20 people rated how relevant
each document was to its query.
And for each query, therefore,
we ended up with two numbers.
One was the average relevance of
results returned by keyword search,
and the average relevance of results
returned by latent semantic mapping.
The horizontal axis here
shows the relevance of results
returned by the keyword search.
Queries to the left
produce irrelevant results,
the right-hand end means
highly relevant results.
The vertical axis is the
relevance of results returned
by Latent Semantic Mapping.
Higher is better.
Every point in this space is a query.
Queries that land along this
diagonal would mean that Latent
Semantic Mapping performed about
as well as a keyword search.
Any queries that came out near
the bottom right would have been
answered better by a keyword search
than by Latent Semantic Mapping.
Queries that come out at the top
left would have been answered
better by Latent Semantic Mapping.
Here are the queries that were answered
Here are those where both
methods worked about the same.
And here are the few where keyword
search actually performed better,
but not much better.
This region is particularly important.
These are the queries for which a
keyword-based search totally failed,
and LSM made the results
significantly better.
One advantage of doing an analysis like
this is that you can identify those
cases where LSM is not working so well.
For example, this guy down here.
Once you identify those cases,
you can analyze them,
figure out what went wrong,
and do something to address the problem.
Which brings me to what can you do
to improve how well Latent Semantic
Mapping works in your own application?
We send documents into the
Latent Semantic Mapping Framework
and we get out a result.
You can improve the performance
if you insert a pre-processor
before you send the text from
your documents into the engine,
and improve it even more
if you post-process the
results on their way out.
One way to pre-process those
results is to use engrams.
Jerome foreshadowed this when he
mentioned syntactic relationships
between adjacent words.
Engrams are word pairs and word triplets,
and they can capture different
senses of meanings of words.
For example, click in double click
refers to a user action.
Click in Key Click refers
to a system sound.
Ngrams can capture these
kinds of differences.
You can ask the Latent Semantic
Mapping engine itself to
calculate all bigrams and,
if you wish,
trigrams in your training data and
use these in the classification.
Or you can preprocess the text and
explicitly add tokens into your documents
to represent Ngrams that you care about.
Another thing you can do, and should do,
is remove from your documents
text that is not systematically
related to the content,
to the meaning of those documents.
For example, HTML tags,
or text that occurs in every document,
such as "return to the contents".
Another thing you can do is stemming.
For example,
the words "save" and "saving"
probably should be collapsed
together for purposes of semantics,
but the word "saver" should not.
The point is:
help latent semantic mapping,
a statistical technique,
by capitalizing on your
application domain-specific
knowledge and encoding that,
implementing that as heuristics
in a text preprocessor.
You can further improve the results
by implementing a post-processor.
Let me walk you through
an example that we did.
When you type a query to help in Lion,
we suggest some
completions for your query.
When we return the results,
we also return some related search terms.
All of these are engrams
generated by the way we use the
Latent Semantic Mapping Engine.
And generally, they're quite helpful.
But not always.
For example,
there are documents that tell you
how to clean up your workspace.
There are other documents that tell
you how to set up your workspace.
The most common substring that these
contain is "up your workspace".
So, we filter the output, the engrams,
to exclude any engrams that
begin or end with a preposition.
So how can you make latent
semantic mapping work better
for you in your own application?
First of all,
think about are there aspects of my
application where we could use it?
We've shown you a few examples,
here are some more to get you thinking.
Bookmarks.
If your users have bookmarks,
you could classify them by analysing the
documents that those bookmarks point to.
Similarly,
if your users have RSS feeds coming in,
you could analyse their content and
perhaps categorise them together or
use this query approach that we've just
described to allow users to retrieve
the RSS feeds or the documents that
they think are relevant by some query.
If your users have media,
you could go out on the web,
retrieve reviews and categorise
them by those reviews.
Similarly,
if you've got wines and cheeses,
go out and find the reviews and the
descriptions about those and categorise
them by what people say about them.
People have used latent semantic
mapping to analyse DNA sequences.
In fact,
it's a pretty common technique for those.
Some guidelines.
In trying to think about can
latent semantic mapping help
me in a task in my application,
you should ask yourself,
is the problem that I'm going to
address syntactic or semantic in nature?
If you're looking for syntactic patterns
such as dates or email addresses,
latent semantic mapping is not
the appropriate technology.
But if you want to sort things by
topic or retrieve documents by queries,
then it will help.
If you are training it to
distinguish between categories,
then you have to make sure that those
categories are sufficiently distinct.
It will be difficult for Latent
Semantic Mapping to learn the difference
between economics and business,
but it will be much easier for it
to learn the difference between
economics and entertainment.
If you are training it,
you may have lots of documents already
that you've already categorized by topic.
For example,
Matthias showed you an example where
we had lots of different text files of,
we knew which programming
language they were in.
If you're doing that,
Partition your training set
randomly into 10 random chunks.
Train on the first 9,
hold out the last chunk for testing.
And do that for all
possible 90%/10% splits.
That'll give you the best way
to predict how will this work on
documents that I haven't seen yet.
If, while you're testing you find that
some of the results look strange,
then there are some things that
you can do to improve that.
Some of them I've already told you about,
pre-processing and post-processing.
In addition to another way to help the
pre-processing is to use stop words.
The engine allows you to give it a list
of words that you want it to ignore.
For example, words like "the" and "of"
will occur in all documents
regardless of their meaning.
And if your training set is large enough,
the engine can automatically learn these,
but you might need an
infinite training set.
You could probably help
it along by saying,
"I know that the following words are
not going to help for my topics."
Also,
experiment with the number of dimensions.
By default,
we use the number of dimensions
to match the number of
categories you're training it on.
But if you're just
sending in all documents,
like we did in the Help case,
then choose somewhere between
100 and 300 dimensions.
We used 300 for Help.
The training data should,
as much as possible,
represent the full breadth of the domain,
the kind of variability that you
expect to see in the next document
that your user brings along.
And if you have multiple categories,
try to have roughly even numbers
of documents in each category.
People ask, "So how much training
data should I have?" Well,
it's hard to say.
One rule of thumb is large
enough to cover the variability
in your topic domain.
A rule of thumb is try to have
at least 30,000 unique words.
The more categories you
need to distinguish between,
the more instances of each category
you need to let the engine see.
And if the data is going
to change over time,
such as news,
then you need to train on even more data.
Finally, we suggest, recommend in fact,
that you integrate Latent Semantic
Mapping with other sources of knowledge.
It's not a replacement
for other techniques,
it's a complement to them.
It can often improve the
robustness of an overall system.
Matthias already worked you
through in some detail what we
did with the Junk Mail Filter.
In the same way, when we were doing the
Kana to Kanji conversion,
we did not replace everything
with the Latent Semantic Mapping,
but rather used it as just an
additional source of information that
was exploited in the final decisions.
So, now over to all of you.
Go forth and map some text.
Thank you.
We're supposed to show
you some more information.
There's some documentation available.
There's a mailing list at lists.apple.com
and that's a good place to talk about
with people what worked for you,
what didn't work for you,
and get hints and best practices.